# ContextFreeGrammar
Goal:
You will write code to parse a text file describing a Chomsky Normal Form grammar, and you will implement an algorithm that tests whether that grammar will accept a particular string. This will give you the chance to connect the theory and practice of computation, and make the material feel more concrete.

Description:
Our code is a program that parses context free grammar. Context free grammar is a 4-tuple  (V, Σ, R, S) 
V is a finite set called variables, Σ is a set disjoint from V called the terminals, R is a set of rules, with each rule being a variable and a string of variables and terminals and S is the start variable. Our code test whether a particular string can be generated by a particular grammar. In this case our code parses grammar that is converted to Chomsky-normal form (CNF). We implemented our code based off of the Sispers Algorithm for Implementation below.

Sispers Algorithm for Reference:
PROOF The following algorithm D implements the proof idea. Let G be
a CFG in Chomsky normal form generating the CFL L. Assume that S is the
start variable. (Recall that the empty string is handled specially in a Chomsky
normal form grammar. The algorithm handles the special case in which w = ε
in stage 1.) Comments appear inside double brackets.
D = “On input w = w1 · · · wn:
1. For w = ε, if S → ε is a rule, accept; else, reject. [[ w = ε case ]]
2. For i = 1 to n: [[ examine each substring of length 1 ]]
3. For each variable A:
4. Test whether A → b is a rule, where b = wi.
5. If so, place A in table(i, i).
6. For l = 2 to n: [[ l is the length of the substring ]]
7. For i = 1 to n − l + 1: [[ i is the start position of the substring ]]
8. Let j = i + l − 1. [[ j is the end position of the substring ]]
9. For k = i to j − 1: [[ k is the split position ]]
10. For each rule A → BC:
11. If table(i, k) contains B and table(k + 1, j) contains C, put A in table(i, j).
12. If S is in table(1, n), accept; else, reject.”




Grammars Files:
- anbnGrammar.txt
- anbnGramamrInput.txt
- astarGrammar.txt
- astarGrammarInput.txt
- equalAsBsGrammar.txt
- equalAsBsGrammarInput.txt
- palindromeGrammar.txt
- palindromGrammarInput.txt

Algorithm File:
- CFGAlgorithm.java

Language:
- Java

Compiling Code:

- javac CFGAlgorithm.java (for compiling code)

Testing Code:

- java CFGAlgorithm astarGrammar.txt astarGrammarInput.txt (testing astar grammar)
- java CFGAlgorithm anbnGrammar.txt anbnGrammarInput.txt (testing anbn grammar)
- java CFGAlgorithm palindromeGrammar.txt palindromeGrammarInput.txt (testing palindrome grammar)
- java CFGAlgorithm equalAsBsGrammar.txt equalAsBsGrammarInput.txt (testing equal a's and b's grammar)

